[MUSIC]
>> Kevin Whinnery: The other key
player in our financial chain is SAS.
SAS provides a superset of
CSS features as I said.
If you write just plain CSS, that is
also a valid SAS or SCSS style sheet.
But it provides a lot more functionality
that.
>> Kevin Whinnery: I'm sorry browser
if I had there, I open the chat James
actually corrected me the browser
stuff in this project is largely,
is in the grunt file but
some of the transform configuration
is in the package.JSON.
So, some of the browser if I transforms
expect to find their configuration and
package.JSON which is why that's there.
But some of the transformations are
actually configured in the current file.
I think in this in this instance.
Thank you for the clarification there.
>> Kevin Whinnery: So in terms of SAS,
it gives us the ability to better
modularize our CSS, essentially.
It allows us to write our Or CSS like we
would write our code, so in our code,
we wouldn't write the same thing over,
and over, and over again for
different classes, but in CSS that's
essentially what you have to do.
If you want to use you'll find that
you're using the same font family,
declaration for multiple elements and
it's possible to write CSS such that you
don't repeat yourself a lot but
invariably you end up doing that.
So SAS provides the ability to
create things called mixin.
Which allows you to have
better modularization.
In your JavaScript code you
can earn your x here SAS code.
So you can essentially integrate sets of,
functionality into your CSS.
And sort of reuse those mixed
ends all across your SAS code.
The other bit that it allows you to do,
is to specify variables.
And import external SAS style sheets,
basically anywhere within your SAS.
Both are fairly critical features,
especially like when
you're talking about colors and
other sort of site-wide design elements.
Being able to assign those to variables
that you can use in multiple places and
then change once,
and then watch those changes
propagate everywhere in your styles.
That being pretty clutch.
SAS also comes with a fast
as c based compiler.
So it's fairly performance
when you're actually
compiling the style sheets as well.
>> Speaker 2: An you talk
a little bit about the advantages or
disadvantages of SAS over less.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yeah I mean actually,
that's a well just skip
ahead a little bit so.
It's fairly interchangeable
with less in terms of style.
I think it comes down to
preference largely Sass.
Is cross-platform I think last
is Node.js only, if I'm not
mistaken out you can probably run it and
you can probably use it everywhere,
I'm sure it'll work just fine
with other environments as well.
But yeah.
>> Speaker 3: I'm gonna
extend the question, why would choose only
bootstrap three and like jQuery UI for
some of the stuff?
>> Kevin Whinnery: So those tools,
like the question if you didn't hear it,
was why wouldn't you use Bootstrap 3 or
jQuery UI for stuff like this?
And those tools actually serve
a slightly different purpose.
So like jQuery UI provide a set
of CSS classes that you can apply
to objects, to make them look nice and
turn into drop-downs and stuff like that.
But for authoring your own styles for
your own components,
you probably will be authoring
CSS from scratch, anyway.
And Bootstrap and jQuery UI help with some
prebuilt classes that you can use for
grids, and those tools work
really well with Sass or Less.
In fact, Bootstrap.
One of the things you can
do if you're using Sass.
And I know at one point,
they had less styles as well.
But I feel like maybe at one
point they converted to Sass.
I'll have to check on that specifically.
But, if you actually download
the bootstrap Sass files,
you can import them into your own
styles and use only the parts
of the bootstrap styles that you're
actually leveraging in your application.
And which ends up being a little
lighter weight then including a larger
package that you didn't customize.
There are also similar to bootstrap
is a framework called a UI kit,
which I would definitely
recommend you check out.
Which provides a set of Sass mix-ins and
other bits that you can actually include
in your own CSS to create like CSS3
transformations and
useful things like that.
So it provides useful mix-ins,
responsive breakpoints and
stuff like like that.
>> Speaker 3: Thank you.
>> Kevin Whinnery: Yes no problem.
But yes so
less per served largely the same purpose,
and it's fairly interchangeable.
At this point, for me it's more of
a preference thing usually I like SAS
a little better.
>> Kevin Whinnery: And
the Webpack as long as we're here on
the alternates tip, is also provides like
a module bundling functionality based
on the new ECMAScript module system.
It also provides some other module
bundling features and functionality,
also fully legit,
it also has a growing set of plugins.
And, I think at this point
because browser around longer.
I think it has a richer
set of transformations and
plugins that can be brought
to bear using browser Fi, but
Webpacks has a large and thriving
community of plugin developers as well.
So again, fully a valid choice if
you wanna go in that direction.